## How to ssh

Why ssh? Suppose you wan to log in to a computing node, where you have an account from your local computer. On your local computer you (hopefully) have a user account, which is secured by a passphrase.

If you want to log in to another machine, such as the computing node, you have to transmit your passphrase and username.

In order to do so in an encrypted connection, you can use ssh.

Usage:
    * interactive shell:
    `$ ssh -l username host.example.com`
    * command execution:
    `ssh host.example.com /usr/bin/command`
    * file transfer
    `scp file username@computingnode.com`


### ssh keys and ssh agent

If you don't want to type your passphrase every time you connect, you can use a ssh key, which may be protected by a local passphrase. How does it work?

1. In advance (and only once) place nonsecure files, called public key files into your remote computer accounts. These enable your ssh clients (ssh, scp) to access your remote accounts.
2. On your local machine, invoke the ssh-agent program, which runs in the background
3. Choose the key (or keys) you will need to the login session and load the keys into the agent with the ssh-add program. This requires knowledge of each keys special passphrase.
4. Now you ahve an ssh-agent prgram running on your local machine, holding your secret keys in memory, which will log in every time, so you have passwordless access. This setup lasts until you log out from te local machine or terminate ssh-agent.


### Other features

* Access Control
* Port Forwarding / tunneling: ssh -L 3002:localhost:119 news.someserver.com (connect connection from port 3002 on my local machine to port 119 on news.someserver.com)

### How to use an ssh config file

Enter the following content to

`$ emacs .ssh/config `:

```
Host *
     ControlMaster auto
     ControlPath ~/.ssh/sockets/%r@%h-%p
     ControlPersist 600
     Ciphers aes256-ctr
     Compression yes
     ForwardAgent yes
     ForwardX11 yes


Host rzg
     HostName mppui2.t2.rzg.mpg.de
     User pgadow
     Port 22
     ProxyCommand ssh pgadow@gatezero.rzg.mpg.de nc %h %p %r
     
Host lxplus
     HostName lxplus.cern.ch
     User pgadow
     Port 22

```

This enables your ssh for the rzg configuration with automatic proxy forwarding.
a bonus is the following line in your `.bashrc` file:

```
# mppui i --- connect to worker node i on rzg
function mppui(){
    # simple solution: with a jump
    # ssh -Y -A -tt pgadow@gatezero.rzg.mpg.de ssh -tt -A -Y pgadow@mppui${1}.t2.rzg.mpg.de

    # better solution
    ssh -t -Y -A -o ProxyCommand="ssh pgadow@gatezero.rzg.mpg.de nc mppui${1}.t2.rzg.mpg.de 22" pgadow@mppui${1}.t2.rzg.mpg.de
}
```