## Journal for the edx u.lab course

### Reflection on the "Overview Effect"
Watching the video clip "Turning the camera around" about looking at the earth from space

#### 1. What touched you?
I am surprised how little we can knowingly appreciate how fragile the earth is. The atmosphere is a tiny layer protecting the earth from the stellar vacuum and cosmic radiation yet we as humans behave as if it were limitless and could be filled with an unlimited amount of pollutants.
The impact of humankind on the planet, shaping the earth's surface, drawing borders by facilitating erosion, eradicating the rainforest and while exploiting nature also establishing those borders in an increasingly becoming unequal society, is easy to forget in everyday life. However, seeing the planet as a whole, it becomes undeniable what we as a human society inflict to earth.
As a side thought: is there anymore a human society, humankind as a whole or has the struggle between individuals driven by greed, always trying to outsmart the other, led to the demise of the planet?

#### 2. Turning the camera back on "planet self/earth":

Where are you experiencing a world that is ending/dying?

I experience an ending world where humans move away from their self and their nature. 
If people stop to engage and become trapped in commercial schemes to stop actively think and ask questions, individual's good motives can get lost and automatism takes the place of individuals nature.

Spoken differently: if there are winners and losers, then something is dying.

Where are you experiencing a world that is wanting to be born?

I experience a world that is wanting to be born when human beings connect and engage together. A loving relationship that allows both partners to grow and explore life and the world is a wonderful example. Exploring the wonders of nature and discovery is another one.

Spoken differently: if a group or confronting groups can change the situation in a way, that there are only winners.